AXIS STANDARD SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT 

This is a legal agreement between you (either individual or an entity) 
and Axis Communications AB (hereinafter referred to as “Axis”) for the 
licensing of AXIS Media Control SDK, software, documentation and sample 
code provided to you (the “SOFTWARE”). 

BY CLICKING ON THE “I ACCEPT” BUTTON, OR BY DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, 
ACTIVATING OR COPYING OR OTHERWISE USING THE SOFTWARE, YOU ARE AGREEING 
TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. PLEASE ENSURE THAT YOU HAVE 
CAREFULLY READ AND PROPERLY UNDERSTOOD THE ENTIRE AGREEMENT BEFORE 
AGREEING TO ITS TERMS AND CONDITIONS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO ALL OF THE 
TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT, MARK THE “I DON’T ACCEPT” BOX AND CLICK THE 
“CANCEL” BUTTON AND THE INSTALLATION WILL BE ABORTED. 

1. GRANT OF LICENSE. Subject to the terms and conditions of this 
agreement and all applicable laws and regulations, Axis grants to you a 
nonexclusive, non-transferable, non-sublicensable, revocable, 
royalty-free license to use the SOFTWARE for the sole and limited 
purpose of developing applications or products designed to function with 
Axis products. The SOFTWARE is in "use" on a computer when it is loaded 
into temporary memory (i.e. RAM) or installed into permanent memory 
(e.g. hard disk, CD-ROM or other storage device) of that computer. 

2. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS. 

The SOFTWARE contains copyright protected material, trade secrets and 
other proprietary information and material of Axis and/or its 
licensor(s), if any, and is protected by copyright laws and 
international copyright treaties and trade secret laws, as well as other 
intellectual property laws and treaties. Therefore you must treat the 
SOFTWARE like any other copyrighted material (e.g. a book or a musical 
recording) except that you may either (a) make a copy of the SOFTWARE 
solely for backup or archival purposes or (b) transfer the SOFTWARE to a 
single hard disk provided you keep the original solely for backup 
purposes. 

3. OTHER RESTRICTIONS. 

You may not rent, lease or sublicense the SOFTWARE but you may transfer 
the SOFTWARE and accompanying written materials on a permanent basis 
provided that you retain no copies and the recipient agrees to the terms 
of this agreement. You may not reverse engineer, decompile, or 
disassemble the SOFTWARE. If the SOFTWARE is an update or has been 
updated, any transfer must include the most recent update and all 
previous versions. 

4. THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE. 

You acknowledge and agree that some portions of the SOFTWARE may be 
based on industry recognized standards and that certain third parties 
may claim to own patents or other intellectual property rights that 
covers the implementation of those standards. You acknowledge and agree 
that this agreement does not convey any license to any such third party 
intellectual property rights and, further, that Axis disclaims any 
liability whatsoever for any actual or alleged intellectual property 
infringement claims from any third party that relate to your use of the 
SOFTWARE. You also acknowledge and agree that the SOFTWARE may contain 
proprietary third party software and/or software that are subject to 
open source licenses which may be subject to notices and/or additional 
terms and conditions. By accepting this agreement, you are also 
accepting such additional terms and conditions, if any. 

Specifically, you acknowledge and agree that your use of the SOFTWARE or 
distribution of the SOFTWARE with your product or application as 
permitted by this license may require you to procure license(s) from one 
or more third parties that may hold intellectual property rights, e.g. 
applicable to any media decoding or encoding technology (such as, for 
example, through use of audio and/or video encoders and decoders). 
Should any such additional licenses be required, you are solely and 
exclusively responsible for obtaining any such licenses and agree to 
obtain any such licenses at your own expense. You acknowledge and agree 
that this agreement does not convey any license to any such third party 
intellectual property rights and, further, that Axis disclaims from any 
liability whatsoever for any actual or alleged intellectual property 
infringement claims from any third party that relate to your use of the 
SOFTWARE. 

5. ADDITIONAL LICENSE RIGHTS – REDISTRIBUTABLE CODE AND SAMPLE CODE. 

In addition to the rights granted in Section 1, certain parts of the 
SOFTWARE, i.e. SAMPLE CODE AND REDISTRIBUTABLE CODE (collectively the 
REDISTRIBUTABLES) as described in this Section 5, are provided to you 
with additional license rights. These additional license rights are 
conditioned upon your compliance with the distribution requirements and 
license restrictions described in Sections 5 and 6. 

SAMPLE CODE is identified as “Samples”. Axis grants to you a 
non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-sublicensable, revocable right (i) 
to use and modify the SAMPLE CODE for the purpose of designing, 
developing and testing your software product and (ii) to reproduce and 
distribute the SAMPLE CODE, along with modifications thereof, in object 
and/or source code form. For further applicable redistribution 
requirements, see Section 6 below. 

REDISTRIBUTABLE CODE is identified as ”redist”/”redistX64”. Axis grants 
you a non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-sublicensable, revocable 
right to reproduce or distribute the REDISTRIBUTABLE CODE in object code 
form. For further applicable redistribution requirements, see Section 6 
below. 

6. REDISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS AND LICENSE RESTRICTIONS REGARDING 
REDISTRIBUTABLE CODE AND SAMPLE CODE. 

If you redistribute the REDISTRIBUTABLES, you agree to (i) only 
distribute the REDISTRIBUTABLES, or portions thereof, as part of the 
product or application you develop by using the REDISTRIBUTABLES under 
the condition that the product or application adds significant and 
primary functionality to the REDISTRIBUTABLES, (ii) not to use Axis’ 
name or trademark to market your product or application without written 
permission, (iii) not to remove or obscure any copyright, trademark or 
patent notices that appear on the SOFTWARE as delivered to you, (iv) 
assume the sole responsibility to your customers for any update or 
support obligations or other liability which may arise from the 
distribution of the REDISTRIBUTABLES, (v) not make any statement that 
your product is “certified” or that its performance is guaranteed by 
Axis, (vi) only distribute the REDISTRIBUTABLES subject to a license 
agreement that protects Axis’ interests consistent with the terms 
contained in this Agreement, (vii) indemnify, hold harmless and defend 
Axis from and against any claims or lawsuits, including attorney’s fees 
that arise or result from your distribution of the product or 
application, and (viii) otherwise comply with the terms of this 
Agreement. 

7. TERMINATION 

This License is effective until terminated. Your rights under this 
license agreement will terminate automatically without notice from Axis 
if you fail to comply with any term(s) of this license agreement. Upon 
the termination of this license agreement, you shall cease all use of 
the SOFTWARE and destroy all copies, full or partial, of the SOFTWARE. 

8. GOVERNING LAW 

This agreement shall be deemed performed in and shall be construed by 
the laws of Sweden. Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or 
in connection with this agreement, or the breach, termination or 
invalidity thereof, shall be finally settled by arbitration in 
accordance with the Arbitration Rules of the Arbitration Institute of 
the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce.The seat of arbitration shall be 
Malmö, Sweden. The language to be used in the arbitral proceedings shall 
be English. 

9. LIABILITY 

YOU SHALL INDEMNIFY AND HOLD AXIS AND ITS AFFILIATES HARMLESS FROM ANY 
AND ALL CLAIMS WHATSOEVER, AGAINST AXIS OR ITS AFFILIATES FROM ANY THIRD 
PARTY RELATING TO OR EMANATING FROM YOUR USE OF THE SOFTWARE UNDER THIS 
AGREEMENT. THE FOREGOING INDEMNIFICATION INCLUDES BUT IS NOT LIMITED TO 
ANY AND ALL DAMAGES, COSTS AND EXPENSES (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO 
REASONABLE ATTORNEY’S FEES). 

10. DISCLAIMER AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 

THE SOFTWARE IS DELIVERED ”AS IS” (SW: “befintligt skick”) WITHOUT 
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE USE, RESULTS AND 
PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE IS ASSUMED BY YOU. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT 
PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, AXIS DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL WARRANTIES, 
WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE 
AND NON-INFRINGEMENT, AND ANY WARRANTY ARISING OUT OF ANY PROPOSAL, 
SPECIFICATION OR SAMPLE WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE. AXIS DOES NOT 
WARRANT AGAINST INTERFERENCE WITH YOUR USE OF THE SOFTWARE, THAT THE 
SOFTWARE WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS, THAT THE OPERATION OF THE SOFTWARE 
WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, ERROR- OR BUG-FREE OR THAT ERRORS AND BUGS WILL 
BE CORRECTED. 

NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY HEREIN, UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES 
WILL AXIS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, ECONOMIC, 
EXEMPLARY, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES OF ANY KIND OR NATURE 
WHATSOEVER, WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, WARRANTY, TORT (INCLUDING 
NEGLIGENCE) STRICT LIABILITY OR ANY OTHER LEGAL THEORY, ARISING OUT OF 
OR IN ANY WAY RELATED TO THE SOFTWARE, THE USE OR DISPOSITION THEREOF, 
ITS PERFORMANCE OR FAILURE TO PERFORM HEREUNDER OR OTHERWISE FROM THIS 
LICENSE AGREEMENT, EVEN IF AXIS HAS BEEN ADVISED ON THE POSSIBILITY OF 
SUCH DAMAGE OR IF SUCH DAMAGE COULD HAVE BEEN REASONABLY FORESEEN, AND 
NOTWITHSTANDING ANY FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE. THIS LIMITATION OF 
LIABILITY INCLUDES, BUT IS NOT LIMITED TO, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL, 
LOST PROFITS, LOSS OF DATA OR SOFTWARE, WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE 
OR MALFUNCTION OR IMPAIRMENT OF OTHER GOODS. THIS LIMITATION OF 
LIABILITY SHALL APPLY EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT OTHERWISE REQUIRED BY 
APPLICABLE LAW. 

AXIS’ CUMULATIVE, AGGREGATE LIABILITY FOR ANY AND ALL CLAIMS RELATED TO 
THE SOFTWARE AND OTHERWISE TO THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT SHALL NOT EXCEED 
THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF LICENSE FEES PAID BY YOU HERERUNDER. 

THE DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY SET FORTH IN THIS 
SECTION 10 IS AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. 

11. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. 

This agreement is the entire agreement between you and Axis relating to 
the licensing of the SOFTWARE. This agreement supersedes all prior 
communications, proposals and representations with respect to the 
SOFTWARE or any other subject matter covered by this agreement. 

12. THIRD PARTY NOTICES.

To request source code for all open source software included in this 
product, send a letter to the address below. In the letter, please
state the following:
* Product name and software version
* Name and postal delivery address
* Billing address

The requested code will be sent to you on a CD at a charge of 20 USD, to 
cover distribution costs. Axis IPR Department Contact Information: IPR 
Department Axis Communications AB Emdalavägen 14 SE-223 69 Lund Sweden 


-------------------------------------------------------------------

OPUS NOTICE

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are 
met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
- Neither the name of Internet Society, IETF or IETF Trust, nor the 
names of specific contributors, may be used to endorse or promote 
products derived from this software without specific prior written 
permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS 
IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED 
TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER 
OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, 
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR 
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS 
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------

THIS SOFTWARE USES CODE OF FFmpeg LICENSED UNDER THE LGPLv2.1 

GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE 

Version 2.1, February 1999 

Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 51 Franklin 
Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA Everyone is permitted to 
copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but 
changing it is not allowed. 

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL. It also counts as 
the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence the 
version number 2.1.] Preamble 

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to 
share and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are 
intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to 
make sure the software is free for all its users. 

This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some 
specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the Free 
Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it. You can use 
it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether this 
license or the ordinary General Public License is the better strategy to 
use in any particular case, based on the explanations below. 

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use, not 
price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you 
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for 
this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get it if 
you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of it in 
new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do these 
things. 

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid 
distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these 
rights. These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you 
if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it. 

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or 
for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. 
You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. 
If you link other code with the library, you must provide complete 
object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them with the 
library after making changes to the library and recompiling it. And you 
must show them these terms so they know their rights. 

We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the 
library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal 
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library. 

To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there is 
no warranty for the free library. Also, if the library is modified by 
someone else and passed on, the recipients should know that what they 
have is not the original version, so that the original author's 
reputation will not be affected by problems that might be introduced by 
others. 

Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of any 
free program. We wish to make sure that a company cannot effectively 
restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a restrictive license 
from a patent holder. Therefore, we insist that any patent license 
obtained for a version of the library must be consistent with the full 
freedom of use specified in this license. 

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary 
GNU General Public License. This license, the GNU Lesser General Public 
License, applies to certain designated libraries, and is quite different 
from the ordinary General Public License. We use this license for 
certain libraries in order to permit linking those libraries into 
non-free programs. 

When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a 
shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a 
combined work, a derivative of the original library. The ordinary 
General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the entire 
combination fits its criteria of freedom. The Lesser General Public 
License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with the 
library. 

We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it does 
Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General Public 
License. It also provides other free software developers Less of an 
advantage over competing non-free programs. These disadvantages are the 
reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many libraries. 
However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain special 
circumstances. 

For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to encourage 
the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes a 
de-facto standard. To achieve this, non-free programs must be allowed to 
use the library. A more frequent case is that a free library does the 
same job as widely used non-free libraries. In this case, there is 
little to gain by limiting the free library to free software only, so we 
use the Lesser General Public License. 

In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free 
programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of free 
software. For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in non-free 
programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU operating system, 
as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating system. 

Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the 
users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is linked 
with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run that program 
using a modified version of the Library. 

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and 
modification follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a 
"work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library". The 
former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must 
be combined with the library in order to run. 

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION 

0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other 
program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other 
authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of this 
Lesser General Public License (also called "this License"). Each 
licensee is addressed as "you". 

A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data 
prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs 
(which use some of those functions and data) to form executables. 

The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which 
has been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" 
means either the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: 
that is to say, a work containing the Library or a portion of it, either 
verbatim or with modifications and/or translated straightforwardly into 
another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without 
limitation in the term "modification".) 

"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making 
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the 
source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface 
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and 
installation of the library. 

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not 
covered by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running 
a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from such a 
program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the 
Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for writing 
it). Whether that is true depends on what the Library does and what the 
program that uses the Library does. 

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete 
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you 
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate 
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices 
that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty; and 
distribute a copy of this License along with the Library. 

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and 
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee. 

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of 
it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute 
such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided 
that you also meet all of these conditions: 

a) The modified work must itself be a software library. b) You must 
cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating that you 
changed the files and the date of any change. c) You must cause the 
whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all third parties under 
the terms of this License. d) If a facility in the modified Library 
refers to a function or a table of data to be supplied by an application 
program that uses the facility, other than as an argument passed when 
the facility is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to 
ensure that, in the event an application does not supply such function 
or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of its 
purpose remains meaningful. (For example, a function in a library to 
compute square roots has a purpose that is entirely well-defined 
independent of the application. Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that 
any application-supplied function or table used by this function must be 
optional: if the application does not supply it, the square root 
function must still compute square roots.) 

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If 
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and 
can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in 
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those 
sections when you distribute them as separate works. But when you 
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based on 
the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of this 
License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire 
whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it. 

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest 
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to 
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or 
collective works based on the Library. 

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library 
with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a 
storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under the 
scope of this License. 

3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public 
License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do 
this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that 
they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, 
instead of to this License. (If a newer version than version 2 of the 
ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify 
that version instead if you wish.) Do not make any other change in these 
notices. 

Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that 
copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all 
subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy. 

This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the 
Library into a program that is not a library. 

4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative 
of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the 
terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the 
complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which must be 
distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium 
customarily used for software interchange. 

If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a 
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source 
code from the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the 
source code, even though third parties are not compelled to copy the 
source along with the object code. 

5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, 
but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked 
with it, is called a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in 
isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls 
outside the scope of this License. 

However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates 
an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains 
portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". 
The executable is therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states 
terms for distribution of such executables. 

When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file 
that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a 
derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not. 
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be linked 
without the Library, or if the work is itself a library. The threshold 
for this to be true is not precisely defined by law. 

If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure 
layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten 
lines or less in length), then the use of the object file is 
unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative work. 
(Executables containing this object code plus portions of the Library 
will still fall under Section 6.) 

Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may 
distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. 
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether 
or not they are linked directly with the Library itself. 

6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link a 
"work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work 
containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms 
of your choice, provided that the terms permit modification of the work 
for the customer's own use and reverse engineering for debugging such 
modifications. 

You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the 
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by 
this License. You must supply a copy of this License. If the work during 
execution displays copyright notices, you must include the copyright 
notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference directing the 
user to the copy of this License. Also, you must do one of these things: 

a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable 
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the 
work (which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if 
the work is an executable linked with the Library, with the complete 
machine-readable "work that uses the Library", as object code and/or 
source code, so that the user can modify the Library and then relink to 
produce a modified executable containing the modified Library. (It is 
understood that the user who changes the contents of definitions files 
in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application 
to use the modified definitions.) b) Use a suitable shared library 
mechanism for linking with the Library. A suitable mechanism is one that 
(1) uses at run time a copy of the library already present on the user's 
computer system, rather than copying library functions into the 
executable, and (2) will operate properly with a modified version of the 
library, if the user installs one, as long as the modified version is 
interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with. c) 
Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three years, 
to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above, 
for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution. d) 
If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a 
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified 
materials from the same place. e) Verify that the user has already 
received a copy of these materials or that you have already sent this 
user a copy. For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses 
the Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for 
reproducing the executable from it. However, as a special exception, the 
materials to be distributed need not include anything that is normally 
distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major components 
(compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on which the 
executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the 
executable. 

It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions 
of other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the 
operating system. Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them 
and the Library together in an executable that you distribute. 

7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library 
side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities 
not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, 
provided that the separate distribution of the work based on the Library 
and of the other library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided 
that you do these two things: 

a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on 
the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be 
distributed under the terms of the Sections above. b) Give prominent 
notice with the combined library of the fact that part of it is a work 
based on the Library, and explaining where to find the accompanying 
uncombined form of the same work. 8. You may not copy, modify, 
sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library except as expressly 
provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, 
sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will 
automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties 
who have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will 
not have their licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in 
full compliance. 

9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not 
signed it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or 
distribute the Library or its derivative works. These actions are 
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by 
modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the 
Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and all 
its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the 
Library or works based on it. 

10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the 
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the 
original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library 
subject to these terms and conditions. You may not impose any further 
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. 
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with 
this License. 

11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent 
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), 
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or 
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not 
excuse you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute 
so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and 
any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not 
distribute the Library at all. For example, if a patent license would 
not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by all those who 
receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only way you 
could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain entirely from 
distribution of the Library. 

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under 
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to 
apply, and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other 
circumstances. 

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any 
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any 
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the 
integrity of the free software distribution system which is implemented 
by public license practices. Many people have made generous 
contributions to the wide range of software distributed through that 
system in reliance on consistent application of that system; it is up to 
the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to distribute 
software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that 
choice. 

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be 
a consequence of the rest of this License. 

12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in 
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the 
original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may 
add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those 
countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries 
not thus excluded. In such case, this License incorporates the 
limitation as if written in the body of this License. 

13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions 
of the Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new 
versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may 
differ in detail to address new problems or concerns. 

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library 
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any 
later version", you have the option of following the terms and 
conditions either of that version or of any later version published by 
the Free Software Foundation. If the Library does not specify a license 
version number, you may choose any version ever published by the Free 
Software Foundation. 

14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free 
programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, 
write to the author to ask for permission. For software which is 
copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free Software 
Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this. Our decision will be 
guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of all derivatives 
of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of software 
generally. 

NO WARRANTY 

15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY 
FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN 
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES 
PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER 
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE 
ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE LIBRARY IS WITH 
YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL 
NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. 

16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN 
WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY 
AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR 
DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY 
(INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED 
INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF 
THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR 
OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. 